README.rst, before:

.. This file is used by Sphinx.
.. The examples are doctested by Sphinx.

.. _Format Specification Mini-Language:
   https://docs.python.org
   /3/library/string.html#format-specification-mini-language
.. _Format String Syntax:
   https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#format-string-syntax
.. _Template Strings:
   https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#template-strings
.. _Printf Style:
   https://docs.python.org
   /3/library/stdtypes.html#printf-style-string-formatting
.. _Apache 2.0:
   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. _Documentation:
   https://monotable.readthedocs.io/en/latest//index.html
.. _More Examples:
   https://monotable.readthedocs.io/en/latest/more_examples.html
.. _Read the Docs:
   https://readthedocs.org
.. _Repository:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable
.. _Issue Tracker:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/issues
.. _Python Package Index/monotable:
   https://pypi.python.org/pypi/monotable
.. _Default branch build status, coverage, testing:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/blob/master/README.md
.. _Contributing:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/blob/master/contributing.md
.. _README.md:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/blob/v3.2.0/README.md#dataclass-to-ascii-table-printer

Introduction, Installation
==========================

Python library

- Generates an ASCII table from tabular cell data that looks
  *pretty* in a monospaced font.

- Generates an ASCII table from a dataclass.

Monotable offers formatting directives_ to reduce messy table
pre-formatting code.  You can set directives for each column.
You can also write and plug in your own format function directives.

For dataclasses you can configure the formatting of each field
in the dataclass definition to set a format spec or a format
function. See examples in  `README.md`_

Features:

- Allows multi-line title, heading, and cell strings.
- Supports column oriented cell data.
- Generate a table with borders.
- Directives to limit column width and text wrap.
- Add horizontal and vertical rules.
- Join ASCII tables horizontally.
- Is *thoroughly* documented and tested.

Installation
------------

::

    pip install monotable

Examples
========

Per column format specifications
--------------------------------

Specify format string for each column.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono
    headings = ['comma', 'percent']
    formats = [',', '.1%']
    cells = [[123456789, 0.33], [2345678, 0.995]]
    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title="',' and '%' formats."))

.. testoutput::

    ',' and '%' formats.
    --------------------
          comma  percent
    --------------------
    123,456,789    33.0%
      2,345,678    99.5%
    --------------------

- List **formats** supplies the format strings containing the
  formatting instructions.
  They are assigned to columns from left to right.
- Here the format strings are just format specifications.
- For each cell in the column, it and the format specification is passed
  to the built-in function **format(value, format_spec)**.
- To write a format_spec, consult Python's
  `Format Specification Mini-Language`_.
- The cells are organized as a list of rows where each row is a list
  of cells.

zero and none format directives
-------------------------------

Improve the appearance of zero values.
Show the meaning of cell type None.

.. testcode::

    from datetime import datetime
    from monotable import mono

    headings = [
        'hour',
        '24 hour\ntemp\nchange',
        'wind\nspeed',
        'precip.\n(inches)'
        ]

    formats = [
        '%H',
        '(zero=same)+.0f',
        '(zero=calm;none=offline).0f',
        '(zero=).2f',
        ]

    h7 = datetime(2019, 2, 28, 7, 0, 0)
    h8 = datetime(2019, 2, 28, 8, 0, 0)
    h9 = datetime(2019, 2, 28, 9, 0, 0)

    cells = [
        [h7, -2.3,   11, 3.4],
        [h8,  0.1,    0, 0.0],
        [h9,    5, None, 0.6734]
        ]

    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title='=Formatting directives.'))

.. testoutput::

         Formatting directives.
    --------------------------------
          24 hour
             temp     wind   precip.
    hour   change    speed  (inches)
    --------------------------------
    07         -2       11      3.40
    08       same     calm
    09         +5  offline      0.67
    --------------------------------

- The ``'%H'`` format specification is passed by built-in function
  **format()** to datetime.__format__().
- The ``'(zero=same)+.0f'`` format string is split into two parts.

  - ``(zero=same)`` selects the zero directive with the value ``same``.
  - ``+.0f`` is passed to the format function as format_spec.

- The zero format directive applies when the cell is a Number and the
  formatted text contains no non-zero digits.  The characters after zero= are
  the formatted text for the cell.
- Format directives are enclosed by ``(`` and ``)``.
- Separate multiple format directives with ``;``.
- The none format directive formats the cell value None as the characters
  after none=.

parentheses format directive
----------------------------

Enclose negative numbers with parentheses.  The 1's digit remains in
the same column.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono

    headings = ['Description', 'Amount']
    formats = ['', '(zero=n/a;parentheses),']

    cells = [
        ['receivables', 51],
        ['other assets', 9050],
        ['gifts', 0],
        ['pending payments',  -75],
        ['other liabilities', -623]
        ]

    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title='parentheses directive.'))

.. testoutput::

      parentheses directive.
    -------------------------
    Description        Amount
    -------------------------
    receivables           51
    other assets       9,050
    gifts                n/a
    pending payments     (75)
    other liabilities   (623)
    -------------------------

Format function directives
--------------------------

Format function directives select the format function used for the column.
These are useful for scaling numbers and showing truth values.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono

    headings = [
        'units of\nthousands',
        'bool to\nyes/no'
        ]

    formats = [
        '(thousands).1f',
        '(boolean)yes,no'
        ]

    cells = [
        [35200, True],
        [1660, False]
        ]

    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title='Format function directives.'))

.. testoutput::

    Format function directives.
    ------------------
     units of  bool to
    thousands   yes/no
    ------------------
         35.2      yes
          1.7       no
    ------------------

- Note the format function directives thousands and boolean.
- '(thousands)' divides the cell value by 1000.0 and then calls **format()**.
- '(boolean)yes,no' formats the cells that test True as 'yes'
  and False as 'no'.
- You can substitute any text you want for 'yes,no' for example 'on,off'.
- You can also write and plug in an unlimited number of custom format
  function directives.
- monotable's format function directives are implemented in the file plugin.py.


Column oriented input with vertical rule column
-----------------------------------------------

.. testcode::

    from monotable import monocol, VR_COL

    column0 = ('award', '', ['nominated', 'won'])
    column1 = ('bool to\nyes/no', '(boolean)yes,no', [True, False])
    columns = [column0, VR_COL, column1]

    print(monocol(columns,
        title='Columns with\nvertical rule.'))

.. testoutput::

        Columns with
       vertical rule.
    -------------------
              | bool to
    award     |  yes/no
    -------------------
    nominated |     yes
    won       |      no
    -------------------

- VR_COL in the second column renders the vertical bars.
- The title is center aligned.

Horizontal and vertical rules in a row oriented table
-----------------------------------------------------

The cell row **monotable.HR_ROW** will be replaced with
a heading guideline.

The text between columns can be changed with the format directive lsep.
lsep specifies the separator between this column and the left side
neighbor column.

By default the column separator is two spaces.
In this example lsep in the second
column is changed to ``' | '``.  This creates an effect approximating
a vertical rule.

The last row only has one element.  **monotable** extends short heading,
formats, and cell rows with the empty string value.  Extra format
directive strings are silently ignored.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono, HR_ROW

    headings = ['col-0', 'col-1']
    formats = ['', '(lsep= | )']

    cells = [['time', '12:45'],
             ['place', 'home'],
             HR_ROW,              # put a heading guideline here
             ['sound', 'bell'],
             ['volume']]          # short row is extended with empty string

    print(mono(headings, formats, cells))

.. testoutput::

    --------------
    col-0  | col-1
    --------------
    time   | 12:45
    place  | home
    --------------
    sound  | bell
    volume |
    --------------


`Documentation`_ on `Read the Docs`_

`More Examples`_

.. _directives:

List of format directives
=========================

Read about all the format directive syntax in the full `Documentation`_.
Follow the Format directives link in the Quick Links section.

none=ccc
    render cell type None as characters ccc.

zero=ccc
    render numeric cell that formats to zero to characters ccc.

parentheses
    remove minus sign and enclose negative cell value in parentheses.

lsep=ccc
    Characters ccc separate this column and the column to the left.

rsep=ccc
    Characters ccc separate this column and the column to the right.

width=N
    sets maximum width of column to N characters, content is truncated

width=N;wrap
    sets maximum width of column to N characters, content is text wrapped

width=N;fixed
    Pads or truncates content to N characters.

width=N;fixed;wrap
    Pads or text wraps content to N characters.


List of format function directives
==================================

boolean
    test cell truth value and substitute caller's strings for True, False.
    The format_spec is ttt,fff where characters ttt are rendered for True and
    the characters fff are rendered for False.

function-name
    selects user defined function function-name.
    User can plug in an unlimited number of format functions.

thousands millions billions trillions
    divide cell value by 1000.0 (1.0e6, 1.0e9, 1,0e12).

milli micro nano pico
    multiply cell value by 1000.0 (1.0e6, 1.0e9, 1,0e12).

kibi mebi gibi tebi
    divide cell value by 1024. (1024**2, 1024**3, 1024**4).

mformat
   format cells that are mappings by selecting keys with the format_spec.

pformat
    cell is formatted by python printf-style percent operator '%'.

sformat
   format cell with str.format().

tformat
   format cell using string.Template.substitute().


Auto-alignment and how to override it
=====================================

Monotable auto-aligns the title, headings, and each column.

Auto-alignment is overridden by
using one of ``'<'``, ``'^'``, ``'>'`` prefixes
on a heading string, format directive string, or title.

Read more about auto-alignment in "Quick Links"
section in the full `Documentation`_. Follow the link `Auto-alignment`.


Links to License, Docs, Repos, Issues, PYPI page
================================================

- License: `Apache 2.0`_
- Full `Documentation`_ on `Read the Docs`_
- `Repository`_
- `Issue Tracker`_
- `Python Package Index/monotable`_
- `Default branch build status, coverage, testing`_

What monotable does not do
==========================

- Produce terminal graphics characters.  Try PYPI terminaltables.
- Handle CJK wide characters.
- Handle ANSI escape terminal color sequences. Try PYPI terminaltables.
- Produce arbitrary markup source text.  Try PYPI tabulate instead.
  However calling mono() or monocol() with keyword argument
  bordered=True produces valid reStructuredText grid table and
  simple table markup is possible.

Monotable does make the output of its formatting and
alignment engine available in list form.  Please look for the function
**MonoTable.row_strings()** in the API documentation.

.. Reserved for recognizing contributors
.. Contributors
.. ============

Recent Changes
==============
3.2.0 - 2024-xx-xx  todo-

- Add feature to print a dataclass as an ASCII table.
- Replace previous CI provider.
- Add GitHub actions to implement CI tests.
- Add requirements files for test and inspections.
- Move metadata to setup.cfg. Remove extras_require=.

3.1.0 - 2020-05-15

- Add py.typed designation. Add to setup() zip_safe=False.

3.0.1 - 2020-05-10

- Remove Python 2.7 compatibility.
- Move typing comments into function annotations.  Rework typing.
- Add monotable.join_strings().

2.1.0 - 2019-02-25

- Add module level convenience functions mono(), monocol() and
  constants HR_ROW, VR_COL.
- Add formatting directives none, zero, parentheses, lsep, and rsep.
- Reorder/rework docs examples and other sections.
- Change what (boolean) prints when malformed format spec.
- Drop Python 3.3 and 3.4 classifiers. Drop Python 3.4 tests from CI.

2.0.1 - 2018-05-12

- Bugfix- MonoTableCellError on str below float in a column.
- Bugfix- Incorrect format spec reported in MonoTableCellError.

2.0.0 - 2017-06-16

- Changed the API: headings and formats parameters are now passed to table(),
  bordered_table().
- Added to class MonoTable 2 member functions that take table data
  organized as columns.
- Added convenience functions to module monotable.table.
  They call class MonoTable public member functions.
- Added 13 new plugin format functions and the corresponding format options:
  boolean, thousands, millions, billions, trillions, milli, micro, nano,
  pico, kibi, mebi, gibi, tebi.
- Removed 'from MonoTable import' statements from __init__.py.

1.0.2 - 2017-04-06

- Bug fix, incorrect cell auto-alignment when mixed types in a column.
- Bug fix, format_none_as cell ignoring column format string's align_spec.
- Remove and re-add files to git index so stored with LFs.
- Add complexity inspections to CI.
- Refactor 2 functions to reduce McCabe complexity.
- Code inspection fixes.  Docs and comments fixed.

1.0.1 - 2017-03-26

- MANIFEST.in and doc fixes.

.. admonition:: More ...

   If you are not already there, please continue reading
   `More Examples`_ in the `Documentation`_ on `Read the Docs`_.

Contributing and Developing
===========================

Please see `Contributing`_.

Commit message:

Recent changes, new formatting test.

README.rst, after:

.. This file is used by Sphinx.
.. The examples are doctested by Sphinx.

.. _Format Specification Mini-Language:
   https://docs.python.org
   /3/library/string.html#format-specification-mini-language
.. _Format String Syntax:
   https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#format-string-syntax
.. _Template Strings:
   https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#template-strings
.. _Printf Style:
   https://docs.python.org
   /3/library/stdtypes.html#printf-style-string-formatting
.. _Apache 2.0:
   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. _Documentation:
   https://monotable.readthedocs.io/en/latest//index.html
.. _More Examples:
   https://monotable.readthedocs.io/en/latest/more_examples.html
.. _Read the Docs:
   https://readthedocs.org
.. _Repository:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable
.. _Issue Tracker:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/issues
.. _Python Package Index/monotable:
   https://pypi.python.org/pypi/monotable
.. _Default branch build status, coverage, testing:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/blob/master/README.md
.. _Contributing:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/blob/master/contributing.md
.. _README.md:
   https://github.com/tmarktaylor/monotable/blob/v3.2.0/README.md#dataclass-to-ascii-table-printer

Introduction, Installation
==========================

Python library

- Generates an ASCII table from tabular cell data that looks
  *pretty* in a monospaced font.

- Generates an ASCII table from a dataclass.

Monotable offers formatting directives_ to reduce messy table
pre-formatting code.  You can set directives for each column.
You can also write and plug in your own format function directives.

For dataclasses you can configure the formatting of each field
in the dataclass definition to set a format spec or a format
function. See examples in  `README.md`_

Features:

- Allows multi-line title, heading, and cell strings.
- Supports column oriented cell data.
- Generate a table with borders.
- Directives to limit column width and text wrap.
- Add horizontal and vertical rules.
- Join ASCII tables horizontally.
- Is *thoroughly* documented and tested.

Installation
------------

::

    pip install monotable

Examples
========

Per column format specifications
--------------------------------

Specify format string for each column.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono
    headings = ['comma', 'percent']
    formats = [',', '.1%']
    cells = [[123456789, 0.33], [2345678, 0.995]]
    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title="',' and '%' formats."))

.. testoutput::

    ',' and '%' formats.
    --------------------
          comma  percent
    --------------------
    123,456,789    33.0%
      2,345,678    99.5%
    --------------------

- List **formats** supplies the format strings containing the
  formatting instructions.
  They are assigned to columns from left to right.
- Here the format strings are just format specifications.
- For each cell in the column, it and the format specification is passed
  to the built-in function **format(value, format_spec)**.
- To write a format_spec, consult Python's
  `Format Specification Mini-Language`_.
- The cells are organized as a list of rows where each row is a list
  of cells.

zero and none format directives
-------------------------------

Improve the appearance of zero values.
Show the meaning of cell type None.

.. testcode::

    from datetime import datetime
    from monotable import mono

    headings = [
        'hour',
        '24 hour\ntemp\nchange',
        'wind\nspeed',
        'precip.\n(inches)'
        ]

    formats = [
        '%H',
        '(zero=same)+.0f',
        '(zero=calm;none=offline).0f',
        '(zero=).2f',
        ]

    h7 = datetime(2019, 2, 28, 7, 0, 0)
    h8 = datetime(2019, 2, 28, 8, 0, 0)
    h9 = datetime(2019, 2, 28, 9, 0, 0)

    cells = [
        [h7, -2.3,   11, 3.4],
        [h8,  0.1,    0, 0.0],
        [h9,    5, None, 0.6734]
        ]

    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title='=Formatting directives.'))

.. testoutput::

         Formatting directives.
    --------------------------------
          24 hour
             temp     wind   precip.
    hour   change    speed  (inches)
    --------------------------------
    07         -2       11      3.40
    08       same     calm
    09         +5  offline      0.67
    --------------------------------

- The ``'%H'`` format specification is passed by built-in function
  **format()** to datetime.__format__().
- The ``'(zero=same)+.0f'`` format string is split into two parts.

  - ``(zero=same)`` selects the zero directive with the value ``same``.
  - ``+.0f`` is passed to the format function as format_spec.

- The zero format directive applies when the cell is a Number and the
  formatted text contains no non-zero digits.  The characters after zero= are
  the formatted text for the cell.
- Format directives are enclosed by ``(`` and ``)``.
- Separate multiple format directives with ``;``.
- The none format directive formats the cell value None as the characters
  after none=.

parentheses format directive
----------------------------

Enclose negative numbers with parentheses.  The 1's digit remains in
the same column.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono

    headings = ['Description', 'Amount']
    formats = ['', '(zero=n/a;parentheses),']

    cells = [
        ['receivables', 51],
        ['other assets', 9050],
        ['gifts', 0],
        ['pending payments',  -75],
        ['other liabilities', -623]
        ]

    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title='parentheses directive.'))

.. testoutput::

      parentheses directive.
    -------------------------
    Description        Amount
    -------------------------
    receivables           51
    other assets       9,050
    gifts                n/a
    pending payments     (75)
    other liabilities   (623)
    -------------------------

Format function directives
--------------------------

Format function directives select the format function used for the column.
These are useful for scaling numbers and showing truth values.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono

    headings = [
        'units of\nthousands',
        'bool to\nyes/no'
        ]

    formats = [
        '(thousands).1f',
        '(boolean)yes,no'
        ]

    cells = [
        [35200, True],
        [1660, False]
        ]

    print(mono(
        headings, formats, cells, title='Format function directives.'))

.. testoutput::

    Format function directives.
    ------------------
     units of  bool to
    thousands   yes/no
    ------------------
         35.2      yes
          1.7       no
    ------------------

- Note the format function directives thousands and boolean.
- '(thousands)' divides the cell value by 1000.0 and then calls **format()**.
- '(boolean)yes,no' formats the cells that test True as 'yes'
  and False as 'no'.
- You can substitute any text you want for 'yes,no' for example 'on,off'.
- You can also write and plug in an unlimited number of custom format
  function directives.
- monotable's format function directives are implemented in the file plugin.py.


Column oriented input with vertical rule column
-----------------------------------------------

.. testcode::

    from monotable import monocol, VR_COL

    column0 = ('award', '', ['nominated', 'won'])
    column1 = ('bool to\nyes/no', '(boolean)yes,no', [True, False])
    columns = [column0, VR_COL, column1]

    print(monocol(columns,
        title='Columns with\nvertical rule.'))

.. testoutput::

        Columns with
       vertical rule.
    -------------------
              | bool to
    award     |  yes/no
    -------------------
    nominated |     yes
    won       |      no
    -------------------

- VR_COL in the second column renders the vertical bars.
- The title is center aligned.

Horizontal and vertical rules in a row oriented table
-----------------------------------------------------

The cell row **monotable.HR_ROW** will be replaced with
a heading guideline.

The text between columns can be changed with the format directive lsep.
lsep specifies the separator between this column and the left side
neighbor column.

By default the column separator is two spaces.
In this example lsep in the second
column is changed to ``' | '``.  This creates an effect approximating
a vertical rule.

The last row only has one element.  **monotable** extends short heading,
formats, and cell rows with the empty string value.  Extra format
directive strings are silently ignored.

.. testcode::

    from monotable import mono, HR_ROW

    headings = ['col-0', 'col-1']
    formats = ['', '(lsep= | )']

    cells = [['time', '12:45'],
             ['place', 'home'],
             HR_ROW,              # put a heading guideline here
             ['sound', 'bell'],
             ['volume']]          # short row is extended with empty string

    print(mono(headings, formats, cells))

.. testoutput::

    --------------
    col-0  | col-1
    --------------
    time   | 12:45
    place  | home
    --------------
    sound  | bell
    volume |
    --------------


`Documentation`_ on `Read the Docs`_

`More Examples`_

.. _directives:

List of format directives
=========================

Read about all the format directive syntax in the full `Documentation`_.
Follow the Format directives link in the Quick Links section.

none=ccc
    render cell type None as characters ccc.

zero=ccc
    render numeric cell that formats to zero to characters ccc.

parentheses
    remove minus sign and enclose negative cell value in parentheses.

lsep=ccc
    Characters ccc separate this column and the column to the left.

rsep=ccc
    Characters ccc separate this column and the column to the right.

width=N
    sets maximum width of column to N characters, content is truncated

width=N;wrap
    sets maximum width of column to N characters, content is text wrapped

width=N;fixed
    Pads or truncates content to N characters.

width=N;fixed;wrap
    Pads or text wraps content to N characters.


List of format function directives
==================================

boolean
    test cell truth value and substitute caller's strings for True, False.
    The format_spec is ttt,fff where characters ttt are rendered for True and
    the characters fff are rendered for False.

function-name
    selects user defined function function-name.
    User can plug in an unlimited number of format functions.

thousands millions billions trillions
    divide cell value by 1000.0 (1.0e6, 1.0e9, 1,0e12).

milli micro nano pico
    multiply cell value by 1000.0 (1.0e6, 1.0e9, 1,0e12).

kibi mebi gibi tebi
    divide cell value by 1024. (1024**2, 1024**3, 1024**4).

mformat
   format cells that are mappings by selecting keys with the format_spec.

pformat
    cell is formatted by python printf-style percent operator '%'.

sformat
   format cell with str.format().

tformat
   format cell using string.Template.substitute().


Auto-alignment and how to override it
=====================================

Monotable auto-aligns the title, headings, and each column.

Auto-alignment is overridden by
using one of ``'<'``, ``'^'``, ``'>'`` prefixes
on a heading string, format directive string, or title.

Read more about auto-alignment in "Quick Links"
section in the full `Documentation`_. Follow the link `Auto-alignment`.


Links to License, Docs, Repos, Issues, PYPI page
================================================

- License: `Apache 2.0`_
- Full `Documentation`_ on `Read the Docs`_
- `Repository`_
- `Issue Tracker`_
- `Python Package Index/monotable`_
- `Default branch build status, coverage, testing`_

What monotable does not do
==========================

- Produce terminal graphics characters.  Try PYPI terminaltables.
- Handle CJK wide characters.
- Handle ANSI escape terminal color sequences. Try PYPI terminaltables.
- Produce arbitrary markup source text.  Try PYPI tabulate instead.
  However calling mono() or monocol() with keyword argument
  bordered=True produces valid reStructuredText grid table and
  simple table markup is possible.

Monotable does make the output of its formatting and
alignment engine available in list form.  Please look for the function
**MonoTable.row_strings()** in the API documentation.

.. Reserved for recognizing contributors
.. Contributors
.. ============

Recent Changes
==============
3.2.0 - 2024-09-xx  todo-

- Add feature to print a dataclass as an ASCII table.
- Add test to detect non ASCII chars/trailing spaces in files.
- Implement CI tests with GitHub actions.
- Add requirements files for test and inspections.
- Move metadata to setup.cfg. Remove extras_require=.

3.1.0 - 2020-05-15

- Add py.typed designation. Add to setup() zip_safe=False.

3.0.1 - 2020-05-10

- Remove Python 2.7 compatibility.
- Move typing comments into function annotations.  Rework typing.
- Add monotable.join_strings().

2.1.0 - 2019-02-25

- Add module level convenience functions mono(), monocol() and
  constants HR_ROW, VR_COL.
- Add formatting directives none, zero, parentheses, lsep, and rsep.
- Reorder/rework docs examples and other sections.
- Change what (boolean) prints when malformed format spec.
- Drop Python 3.3 and 3.4 classifiers. Drop Python 3.4 tests from CI.

2.0.1 - 2018-05-12

- Bugfix- MonoTableCellError on str below float in a column.
- Bugfix- Incorrect format spec reported in MonoTableCellError.

2.0.0 - 2017-06-16

- Changed the API: headings and formats parameters are now passed to table(),
  bordered_table().
- Added to class MonoTable 2 member functions that take table data
  organized as columns.
- Added convenience functions to module monotable.table.
  They call class MonoTable public member functions.
- Added 13 new plugin format functions and the corresponding format options:
  boolean, thousands, millions, billions, trillions, milli, micro, nano,
  pico, kibi, mebi, gibi, tebi.
- Removed 'from MonoTable import' statements from __init__.py.

1.0.2 - 2017-04-06

- Bug fix, incorrect cell auto-alignment when mixed types in a column.
- Bug fix, format_none_as cell ignoring column format string's align_spec.
- Remove and re-add files to git index so stored with LFs.
- Add complexity inspections to CI.
- Refactor 2 functions to reduce McCabe complexity.
- Code inspection fixes.  Docs and comments fixed.

1.0.1 - 2017-03-26

- MANIFEST.in and doc fixes.

.. admonition:: More ...

   If you are not already there, please continue reading
   `More Examples`_ in the `Documentation`_ on `Read the Docs`_.

Contributing and Developing
===========================

Please see `Contributing`_.
