doc/contributing.rst, before:

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome.

Please submit contributions by making a pull request to the repository.

Please include updates to the documentation and tests to provide
full test coverage.

Here are some suggestions:

- CJK wide characters.
- A stand-alone helper function to add an index row to a cell grid.  It
  can go in a new file perhaps named addons.py.  It should accept
  cellgrid of type Iterable of Iterable and handle short rows.
- Additional format exception handlers.
- Additional format functions.  These can be added to plugin.py.

  - Such functions need not be format string option_spec options.
  - New format string option_spec options should be general purpose
    and applicable to more than one application domain.  (Whatever that
    means).

- Handle ANSI escape terminal color sequences.  Please keep in mind colors
  should be preserved when a cell is text wrapped by the **wrap** format
  option and after processing by the **max** format option.

Developing
==========

Documentation is generated by Sphinx using doctest, autodoc,
napoleon, and sphinx_rtd_theme.  The docstrings in table.py consumed
by api_*.rst are Google Style docstrings as described by the
sphinx.ext.napoleon documentation.

Tests are executed by pytest.

Versioning complies with Semantic versioning described by
the Python Packaging User Guide.  The test suite checks that all uses of the
version number are the same.  The developer can update the version number
in __init__.py and then let the test suite failures show the other usages.

The script readme_preview.py generates html from
the output of ``setup.py --long-description``.

Commit message:

Redefine format field width options. - Rename 'max=N' to 'width=N' - 'wrap=N' becomes 'wrap' (boolean) - add 'fixed' format option (boolean) - Update class FormatScanner - Update MonoTable._format_cells_as_columns() - assert if format option function-name has an =arg. - update docs, add new example - update tests, add new tests - Bump major version. - fix typos, rename local vars.

doc/contributing.rst, after:

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome.

Please submit contributions by making a pull request to the repository.

Please include updates to the documentation and tests to provide
full test coverage.

Here are some suggestions:

- CJK wide characters.
- A stand-alone helper function to add an index row to a cell grid.  It
  can go in a new file perhaps named addons.py.  It should accept
  cellgrid of type Iterable of Iterable and handle short rows.
- Additional format exception handlers.
- Additional format functions.  These can be added to plugin.py.

  - Such functions need not be format string option_spec options.
  - New format string option_spec options should be general purpose
    and applicable to more than one application domain.  (Whatever that
    means).

- Handle ANSI escape terminal color sequences.  Please keep in mind colors
  should be preserved when a cell is text wrapped, truncated, or padded
  by the **width**, **fixed**, and **wrap** format options.

Developing
==========

Documentation is generated by Sphinx using doctest, autodoc,
napoleon, and sphinx_rtd_theme.  The docstrings in table.py consumed
by api_*.rst are Google Style docstrings as described by the
sphinx.ext.napoleon documentation.

Tests are executed by pytest.

Versioning complies with Semantic versioning described by
the Python Packaging User Guide.  The test suite checks that all uses of the
version number are the same.  The developer can update the version number
in __init__.py and then let the test suite failures show the other usages.

The script readme_preview.py generates html from
the output of ``setup.py --long-description``.
