doc/convenience.rst, before:

.. _convenience-label:

Module Level API
================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

.. module:: monotable

monotable.HR_ROW
    Row containing a horizontal rule to use as a row in cellgrid.

monotable.VR_COL
    Vertical rule column for use as a column_tuple with monocol().

monotable.MonoTable
    Class to create an aligned and formatted text table from a grid of cells.

Functions
---------

The convenience functions below are the quickest way to generate an
Ascii table.
They create and configure a temporary instance of the class MonoTable
and call a member function.

.. autofunction:: mono
.. autofunction:: monocol

.. issue- using autodata:: monotable.HR_ROW and others here included
.. unwanted text

Legacy Functions
----------------
The details of the function parameters are provided in the class MonoTable
docstrings located by following the links below.

.. module:: monotable.table

.. autofunction:: table
.. autofunction:: bordered_table
.. autofunction:: cotable
.. autofunction:: cobordered_table

.. note:: The prefix **co** in cotable and cobordered_table
   stands for column oriented.

Commit message:

Documentation cleanup - options, option_spec are now called format directives. - moved Quick Links section up. - Removed Formatting Engine Block Diagram from README.md since   it replicates the one in table.py. - tweak examples

doc/convenience.rst, after:

.. _convenience-label:

API
===

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

.. module:: monotable

monotable.HR_ROW
    Row containing a horizontal rule to use as a row in cellgrid.

monotable.VR_COL
    Vertical rule column for use as a column_tuple with monocol().

monotable.MonoTable
    Class to create an aligned and formatted text table from a grid of cells.

Functions
---------

The convenience functions below are the quickest way to generate an
Ascii table.
They create and configure a temporary instance of the class MonoTable
and call a member function.

.. autofunction:: mono
.. autofunction:: monocol

.. issue- using autodata:: monotable.HR_ROW and others here included
.. unwanted text

Legacy Functions
----------------
Since v2.1.0 these functions are superseded by mono() and monocol() above.
The details of the function parameters are provided in the class MonoTable
docstrings located by following the links below.

.. module:: monotable.table

.. autofunction:: table
.. autofunction:: bordered_table
.. autofunction:: cotable
.. autofunction:: cobordered_table

.. note:: The prefix **co** in cotable and cobordered_table
   stands for column oriented.
